South Africans are on the prowl, with just 12 days to go before the culmination of an exciting virtual treasure hunt. Burger King and Pepsi are collaborating on a campaign trail with winners ultimately scoring original African Ginger piece of art and NFT worth $25 000; one of 10 000 limited editions African Ginger NFTs (with an estimated total value of $260 000), along with 20 000 free Whoppers up for grabs. “Gen Z grew up online playing games so combining the world of a digital token hunt and NFTs is a natural transition, especially for those seeking to own an original digital picture from African Ginger,” says Ezelna Jones, head of marketing for Burger King SA. “Like fashion and traditional art, Gen Z members express their personalities through the digital art they collect, including NFTs that represent their passions. ‘X Marks the Drop’ with Pepsi ticks all the boxes as we offer them the opportunity to be incentivised for doing something they would normally be doing while gamifying their experience with our brands.” African Ginger is Seth Pimentel. He is known for his unique illustrative style. He creates art with depth and meaning, often pushing boundaries by merging traditional and digital work into a hybrid of experimentation. Martin Charles of PepsiCo SA says,”the collab of two great brands is one more step to show South Africa how innovative we can be in this channel. We wish all our loyal customers and consumers all the best in their virtual hunt for tokens”. The virtual hunt is a collaborative piece created by Because Creative Experiences and their technology partners Inner Reality supported with media strategy and execution by Initiative Media. To play, go to www.bkxpepsi.co.za on your mobile device or scan the QR code on one of the posters in store. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.