The Broadcast Complaints Commission of South Africa’s new Online Content Services Code of Conduct (Online Content Code) is operational. This effectively means licensed broadcasters can elect to become signatories, submitting their online content services – including streaming and catch-up services – to the jurisdiction of the BCCSA. “The adoption of this Code demonstrates the commitment of licensed broadcasters to act in the public interest by ensuring that the BCCSA as an independent administrative tribunal will not only adjudicate complaints concerning traditional radio and TV content, but also online content services of National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) members,” said BCCSA chairperson Sunette Lötter. “It must be understood that the BCCSA’s Online Content Code is limited to actual content services under the editorial control of NAB members and therefore excludes general content on broadcasters’ websites and any associated social media commentary – for example Twitter, Facebook, Tiktok etc,” added Lötter. Complaints by the public must be lodged within 30 days of the date the online content was first made available for delivery to end users. The procedure is available on the BCCSA’s website, as is the new Online Content Code. NAB members who provide online content services can sign up immediately to the BCCSA Online Content Code – and can also do so as and when new online content services are launched. The list of signatories to the code will be made available on the BCCSA website () and will be updated regularly. “As a heavily regulated broadcasting sector that finds itself competing more and more with unregulated online services, our members pride themselves on adhering to codes of conduct toward trust and accountability,” said the chairperson of the NAB, Thabo Makenete. “Our members have always taken seriously their obligations to adhere to codes of conduct and this Online Content Code should be no different. We are pleased that the public can continue to rely on the BCCSA for independent adjudication of complaints in the online environment as well.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.